Advanced_SRM_settings - Improve ProtocolFunctionManager Config (#3190)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Advanced_Modules/SRM/Advanced_SRM_settings.md

Reviewer: Can we remove the references to the older DataMiner versions, e.g. 9.5.7, 9.5.8, etc. (as 10.0.x and lower are actually no longer supported)? Or do you think these are still needed in this case?

Author: Yes, they can be removed indeed.

uid: Advanced_SRM_settings
---

# Function resources

From DataMiner 9.5.7 onwards, some advanced settings related to function DVEs linked with a function resource, can be configured in the file *Config.xml*, in the folder *C:\\Skyline DataMiner\\ProtocolFunctionManager*. This file contains the following tags:

| Tag | Description |
|--|--|

> | ActiveFunctionResourcesThreshold | Used to configure the number of function DVEs that can be active at the same time. Their deactivation is scheduled after a booking has finished. They only get deactivated if the threshold is reached. The default threshold is 100. <br/> The threshold will not act as a limit, since it is not considered during the activation of function DVEs. |

Reviewer 2: Instead of the last sentence maybe something like this would be more clear?
"DVEs currently in use by bookings or scheduled for use within the hysteresis time will not be automatically disabled."

| FunctionActivationTimeout | When a booking is scheduled to start immediately its assigned function DVEs will get activated, since the start will fail if one of those DVEs is not active. From DataMiner 10.4.7 and 10.4.0 [CU4] onwards, this setting is available to define the timeout after which a booking will fail to start. The default value is 1 minute, which was the fixed value previously. |

> | SkipDcfLinks | When a booking starts, DCF connections are set between the function DVEs of the assigned resource. They get deleted again when the booking finishes. From DataMiner 10.4.7 onwards, this setting is available to disable this start and end action. The default value is false. |

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me, but the 'SkipDcfLinks' feature will likely only be available from 10.4.8 onwards.

uid: Advanced_SRM_settings
---

# Function resources

From DataMiner 9.5.7 onwards, some advanced settings related to function DVEs linked with a function resource can be configured in the file *Config.xml*, in the folder *C:\\Skyline DataMiner\\ProtocolFunctionManager*.

This file contains the following tags:

- **ActiveFunctionResourcesThreshold**: Used to configure the number of function DVEs that can be active at the same time. Their deactivation is scheduled after a booking has finished. They only get deactivated if the threshold is reached. The default threshold is 100.

  The threshold will not act as a limit. The function DVEs assigned to ongoing bookings and bookings scheduled within the hysteresis time (see *FunctionHysteresis* below) will not get deactivated automatically.

> - **FunctionHysteresis**: This hysteresis is considered when the deactivation of function DVEs gets triggered (see *ActiveFunctionResourcesThreshold* above), to keep them from being disabled if they will be used again soon. This time span will be added to the start time of bookings and used to check whether a function resource is in use, in order to determine whether it should be disabled.

Reviewer: Could we add more information about the format of this value (and that of the FunctionActivationTimeout setting)? Based on the example, this doesn't seem to be an obvious thing.

Author: Both are .NET timespans. In XML that translates to a [ISO8601 duration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Durations). Not sure if we should go into detail. The example with code should be clear enough.

  From DataMiner 9.5.8 onwards, this setting is also taken into account to activate a function DVE before the booking it is assigned to is started. For example, if the function hysteresis is set to 10 minutes, any deactivated (disabled) function DVE that is required for a booking will be activated 10 minutes before the start of the booking instance.

  By default, up to DataMiner 9.5.12, this is set to *PT0S*, which means no hysteresis is applied. From DataMiner 9.5.13 onwards, the default value is 10 minutes.

> - **FunctionActivationTimeout**: When a booking is scheduled to start immediately, its assigned function DVEs will get activated, because the booking will fail to start if one of those DVEs is not active. From DataMiner 10.4.0 [CU4]/10.4.7 onwards, this setting is available to define the timeout after which a booking will fail to start. The default value is 1 minute. Prior to DataMiner 10.4.0 [CU4]/10.4.7, this default value is always used.<!-- RN 39672 -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **FunctionActivationTimeout**: When a booking is scheduled to start immediately, its assigned function DVEs will get activated, because the booking will fail to start if one of those DVEs is not active. From DataMiner 10.4.0 [CU4]/10.4.7 onwards, this setting is available to define after how much time a booking will be considered to have failed to start if the function DVEs are still not activated. The default value is 1 minute. Prior to DataMiner 10.4.0 [CU4]/10.4.7, this default value is always used.<!-- RN 39672 -->
```

> - **SkipDcfLinks**: When a booking starts, DCF connections are created between the function DVEs of the assigned resources. They get deleted again when the booking finishes. From DataMiner 10.4.8 onwards, this setting is available to disable this start and end action. The default value is false.<!-- RN 39446 -->

Reviewer: The versions in RN 39446 are still set to TBD, so we can't merge this change yet. Will this be pushed to 10.4.8 soon?

        {
            var protocolFunctionHelper = new ProtocolFunctionHelper(engine.SendSLNetMessages);
            var currentConfig = protocolFunctionHelper.GetProtocolFunctionConfig();
            // Change to the desired values
            currentConfig.ActiveFunctionResourcesThreshold = 123;

>             currentConfig.FunctionHysteresis = TimeSpan.Zero;

Reviewer 2: Not sure if we want to assign "TimeSpan.Zero" in the example, since this is not really a recommended value imo.

Author: I agree, but got it from the XML. I've changed that one too.
